AUDIENCE: Andreas, that was a great speech.
What's your opinion why Mr. Nakamoto
haven't explained why
- what bitcoin is for exactly
and why do you think he decided
not to reveal his identity?
ANDREAS: Well ...
in Greek mythology
there's the story of Prometheus
and Prometheus had the audacity
to steal fire from the gods and give it to man.
And as punishment for that
he was tied to a rock
where an eagle would eat his liver every day
and then overnight the liver would be regrown
so he could be tortured all over again.
Satoshi Nakamoto stole money from the State -
not stealing the money itself
but stealing the technology of money
and giving it to man directly.
And if we ever find out who Satoshi Nakamoto is
the most likely result
will be that someone will either metaphorically
or quite literally tie him to a rock
for an eagle to eat his liver out
- or her liver or their liver.
The day after Nakamoto is found
we will discover from the media
that this person is a criminal, a terrorist,
a Muslim, a lesbian, a vegan
[audience laughs]
an anarchist, a punk rocker,
and biologically related to Justin Bieber.
[audience laughs]
I just enumerated, you know,
ten of the most horrifying things I can think of
because that's what the media is going to do.
Right?
Probably at the behest of governments.
We've got to realize that Satoshi Nakamoto disappeared
just in time.
I think it's very wise
to recognize that Satoshi Nakamoto
is not a deity or a prophet
and that even though he, she or they
created a vision for what bitcoin could be
bitcoin is not theirs.
And their idea of what bitcoin could be or is
is not divine truth.
We are bitcoin.
And bitcoin will always be "we"
not a single person.
That's the whole point.
And therefore it doesn't even matter anymore
what Satoshi Nakamoto thought bitcoin is.
In fact, Satoshi Nakamoto was mostly
arguably unsure about whether this would actually work.
They were extremely hesitant
to think that this would work.
So the bottom line is that
Satoshi Nakamoto can't tell us what bitcoin is
because neither he, she, they, nor we
yet know what bitcoin will be.
We are making history.
We have to take responsibility
for the fact that we are part of making history.
And part of making history means
that you have no idea what comes next
because it's never come before.
And so you have to make your choices carefully
and with a long view into the future.
So the stewardship of bitcoin has passed to all of us.
What do you think bitcoin is?
AUDIENCE: Thank you.
Yeah, I would say I completely agree
that bitcoin is a platform, as a ledger
which gives you a creativity to create whatever you want.
So in this point I completely agree with you.
I completely agree with you in a lot of the points
but in this one, for sure.
So, yeah, it actually gives you
the ability to build anything starting from the currency
from the payment system
and ending with ... with ...
the projects which are now built [inaudible]
And when you use the blockchain
to create the tokens for the trees in the Canada
and then when somebody's making a guitar
from the trees
you can follow the history of guitar in the blockchain.
ANDREAS:  Why not?
AUDIENCE:  Yeah.  That is also the great way to
decrease the level of illegal ...
ANDREAS:  Foresting.
AUDIENCE:  Yes, exactly.
ANDREAS:  So here's the other thing.
[audience applauds]
Here's the other thing that's really important to understand.
Bitcoin doesn't have to be one thing.
That's the whole point of a platform.
It can be that to you
and it could be something completely different to me
and it could be a different thing for every one of you.
In a system where you don't require permission
to innovate, to be creative
where in order to launch an application on the network
all you need is to create a new application
and then find someone else
who wants to interact with you using that application,
the user base of a legitimate application is two.
Okay?
For some applications, one.
You don't need to focus group it or test it.
Write a protocol definition,
launch it on the network.
It's like - how many people do you need
to run an application on the network?
Two at most.
And that's enough
for that application to be meaningful to you.
So bitcoin is
but bitcoin is also whatever you want it to be.
It allows you to express
the application of just two people
and that's one of its magical capabilities.
Because if you want to create
a financial application on our modern financial system
it has to be something that billions of people will use
profitably for the banks
which really means that you can only have
very few applications.
So I think it's important to think about it
as something you own
and I own, and we all own.